Newsletters: add 306 (2024-06-07) (#1714)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2024-06-07-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #306'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2024/06/07/
name: 2024-06-07-newsletter
slug: 2024-06-07-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME

## News

- **BIP and experimental implementation of testnet4:** Fabian Jahr
  [posted][jahr testnet4] to the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list to announce a
  [draft BIP][bips #1601] for testnet4, a new version of [testnet][topic
  testnet] designed to eliminate some problems with the existing
  testnet3 (see [Newsletter #297][news297 testnet]).  Jahr also links to
  a Bitcoin Core [pull request][bitcoin Core #29775] with a proposed
  implementation.  Testnet4 has two notable differences from testnet3:

  - *Fewer reversions to difficulty-1:* it was easy (accidentally or
    deliberately) to reduce an entire period of 2,016 blocks to the
    minimum difficulty (difficulty-1) by mining the ultimate block in a
    period with a timestamp more than 20 minutes after the penultimate
    block.  Now difficulty-1 will only be used if every block in the
    previous period had a timestamp more than 20 minutes after its

>     preceding block or if a regular mainnet-style difficulty adjustment

Author: That's not correct if I understand the spec correctly.  If *every* block in the preceeding 2016-block difficulty period was mined at diff-1, then the next period will be diff-1.  From the spec:

> Only if all blocks from the previous difficulty period have had a difficulty of 1 (possibly by the use of the 20-min rule), this is also used as the base for the calculation of the next difficulty period.

>     preceding block or if a regular mainnet-style difficulty adjustment

Reviewer: No, the first block always has to be mined at the actual difficulty: see e.g. 

- https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/29775#issuecomment-2092080764
- https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/pull/1601#discussion_r1619150218
- https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/29775#issuecomment-2137755950

which in turn means that an entire difficulty period can only be diff-1 if the actual difficulty was calculated to be diff-1.

>     preceding block or if a regular mainnet-style difficulty adjustment

Reviewer: From the BIP draft:
![image](https://github.com/bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io/assets/4060799/a6e74ebb-f378-4a28-8e47-95250499a121)

>     preceding block or if a regular mainnet-style difficulty adjustment

Author: It looks like that text was added in a [later revision](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/compare/45c4c19ac9eaee5353800039d4f03c9193b1b3b0..18e1080bb4b6cfc9fe8206c18aac6a2c0002f23b) of the draft BIP than what I read (I used the copy posted to the mailing list).

I'm sorry I didn't check the latest version of the draft BIP text when you reported this.  I opened a fixup in #1717 but I'm hesitant to merge it until it's been reviewed.

>     preceding block or if a regular mainnet-style difficulty adjustment

Reviewer: All good! I took a look at your fixup suggestion.

  private key).

  Rubin notes that this has an advantage over existing covenant
  proposals in that all operation (except verifying the resultant
  signature) occurs offchain and no data (except the public key and
  signature) needs to be published onchain.  This is always more private
  and will often save space.  Multiple covenant programs can be used in
  the same script by performing multiple signature checks.

  Besides the need for trusted setup, Rubin describes the other major
  downside of function encryption as "under-developed crypto makes it
  impractical to use presently".

- **Updates to proposed soft fork for 64-bit arithmetic:** Christ
  Stewart [posted][stewart 64bit] to Delving Bitcoin to announce an
  update to his earlier proposal to add the ability to work with 64-bit
  numbers in Bitcoin Script (see Newsletters [#285][news285 64bit] and
  [#290][news290 64bit]).  The main changes are:

  - *Updating existing opcodes:* instead of adding new opcodes such as
    `OP_ADD64`, the existing opcodes (e.g. `OP_ADD`) are updated to
    operate on 64-bit numbers.  Because the encoding for large numbers

>     is different than currently used for small numbers, scripts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    is different than currently used for small numbers, script
```

    fragments which are upgraded to use large numbers may need to be
    revised; Stewart gives the example of `OP_CHECKLOCKTIMEVERIFY` now
    needing to take an 8-byte parameter rather than a 5-byte parameter.

  - *Result includes a bool:* a successful operation not only places the
    result on the stack but also places a bool on the stack that
    indicates that the operation was successful.  One common reason an

>     operation might fail is because the result is larger than 64-bits,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    operation might fail is because the result is larger than 64 bits,
```

    overflowing the field size.  Code can use `OP_VERIFY` to ensure the
    operation completed successfully.

  Anthony Towns [replied][towns 64bit] arguing for an alternative
  approach where the default opcodes simply fail if an overflow occurs,
  rather than requiring scripts verify that operations were successful.
  For cases where it would be useful to test whether an operation would

>   result in an overflow, new opcodes such as `ADD_OF` would be made

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  result in an overflow, new opcodes such as `ADD_OF` could be made
```

  available.

- **`OP_CAT` script to validate proof of work:** Anthony Towns
  [posted][towns powcat] to Delving Bitcoin about a script for
  [signet][topic signet] that uses [OP_CAT][topic op_cat] to allow
  anyone to spend coins sent to the script using proof of work (PoW).
  This can be used as a decentralized signet-bitcoin faucet: when a
  miner or a user obtains excess signet bitcoins, they send them to the
  script.  When a user wants more signet bitcoins, they search the UTXO
  set for payments to the script, generate PoW, and create a transaction
  that uses their PoW to claim the coins.

>   Towns's post describes the script and the motivation for several of
>   its design choices.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Towns's post describes the script and the motivation for several
  design choices.
```

- **Proposed update to BIP21:** Matt Corallo [posted][corallo bip21] to
  the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list about updating the [BIP21][]
  specification for the `bitcoin:` URI.  As previously discussed (see
  [Newsletter #292][news292 bip21]), almost all Bitcoin wallets are
  using the URI scheme differently than specified, and additional
  changes to invoice protocols will likely lead to additional changes in

>   use of BIP21.  The major changes in the [proposal][bips #1555]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the use of BIP21.  The major changes in the [proposal][bips #1555]
```

  include:

  - *More than base58check:* BIP21 expects every Bitcoin address to use
    base58check encoding, but that is only used for legacy addresses for
    P2PKH and P2SH outputs.  Modern outputs use [bech32][topic bech32]
    and bech32m.  Future payments will be received to [silent
    payment][topic silent payments] addresses and the LN [offers][topic
    offers] protocol, which will almost certainly be used as BIP21
    payloads.

>   - *Empty body:* BIP21 always expects an address to be provided in

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - *Empty body:* BIP21 always expects a Bitcoin address to be provided in
```

>   - *Empty body:* BIP21 always expects an address to be provided in
>     the body part of the payload, with query parameters providing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - *Empty body:* BIP21 expects an address to always be provided in
    the body part of the payload, with query parameters providing
```

    additional information (such as an amount to pay).  Previous new
    payment protocols, such as the [BIP70 payment protocol][topic bip70
    payment protocol], specified new query parameters to use (see
    [BIP72][]), but clients that didn't understand the parameter would
    fall back to using the address in the body.  In some cases,

>     receivers may not want to fallback to one of the base address types

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    receivers may not want to fall back to one of the base address types
```
(verb instead of noun)

    (base58check, bech32, or bech32m), such as privacy-minded users of
    silent payments.  The proposed update allows the body field to be
    empty.

  - *New query parameters:* the update describes three new keys:
    `lightning` for [BOLT11][] invoices (currently in use), `lno` for LN

>     offers (proposed), and `sp` for silent payments (propsed).  It also

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    offers (proposed), and `sp` for silent payments (proposed).  It also
```

>     describes how the keys for later parameters should be named.

Reviewer 4: maybe

```suggestion
    describes how the keys for future parameters should be named.
```

Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo],
[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

FIXME:Gustavojfe

- [Core Lightning #7252][] lightningd: don't ignore fee limits on mutual close.

- [LDK #2931][] log-outbound-channels

- [Rust Bitcoin #2644][] Add HMAC Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function

- [BIPs #1541][] BIP431: Opt In Topologically Restricted Until Confirmation Transactions For More Robust Fee-bumping

- [BIPs #1556][] BIP 337: Compressed Transactions

- [BLIPs #32][] adds [BLIP32][] describing how proposed DNS-based
  human-readable Bitcoin payment instructions (see [Newsletter
  #290][news290 omdns]) can be used with [onion messages][topic onion
  messages] to allow payments to be sent to an address like
  `bob@example.com`.  For example, Alice instructs her LN client to pay
  Bob.  Her client may not be able to securely resolve DNS addresses
  directly, but it can use an onion message to contact one of its peers

>   that provides a resolution service.  The peer retrieves the DNS TXT

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  that resolves it.  The peer retrieves the DNS TXT
```

Reviewer 3: I'm unsure about this suggestion because the next sentence says that (and how) the peer resolves it.

  record for the `bob` entry at `example.com` and places the results
  along with a [DNSSEC][] signature into an onion message reply to
  Alice.  Alice verifies the information and uses it to request an
  invoice from Bob using the [offers][topic offers] protocol.

> {% assign four_days_after_posting = page.date | date: "%s" | plus: 345600 | date: "%Y-%m-%d 14:30" %}

Reviewer 4: Preview site is showing June 5th here which doesnt seem to jibe with the time the preview generation was made. (sorry I dont have the bandwidth to troubleshoot this)

  data about direct channels such as whether they’re missing, their minimum
  [HTLC][topic htlc] amount, and their maximum HTLC amount. The added logging
  aims to better troubleshoot routing issues by providing visibility into the
  available liquidity and limitations on each channel.

- [Rust Bitcoin #2644][] adds HKDF (HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication
  Code) Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function) to the `bitcoin_hashes`
  component to implement BIP324 in Rust Bitcoin. HKDK is used to derive
  cryptographic keys from a source of keying material in a secure and
  standardized way. [BIP324][topic v2 p2p transport] (also known as v2 P2P
  transport) is a proposal to allow Bitcoin nodes to communicate with each other
  over encrypted connections (enabled by default in Bitcoin Core). 

- [BIPs #1541][] adds BIP431 to propose [Topologically Restricted Until
  Confirmation (TRUC)][topic v3 transaction relay] (v3 transactions) which are a
  subset of standard transactions with additional rules designed to allow
  transaction replacement while minimizing the cost of overcoming
  [transaction-pinning][topic transaction pinning] attacks. See Newsletters

>   [#289][news289 v3], [#296][news296 v3] and [#301][news301 v3] for more on v3

Author: @Gustavojfe Thanks for including these links to previous discussions!  In cases where we have a page dedicated to a topic (e.g. v3 tx relay), we don't normally need to link to previously mentions of that topic.  One of our main motivations for adding topic pages was so that we didn't need to reintroduce a common topic each time we mentioned it and didn't need to manually insert links to each previous time it was mentioned.

Reviewer 5: understood, thanks for explaining.

and release candidates, plus summaries of notable changes to popular
Bitcoin infrastructure software.

## News

- **Upcoming disclosure of vulnerabilities affecting old versions of Bitcoin Core:**
  several members of the Bitcoin Core project [discussed][irc disclose]
  on IRC a [proposed policy][disclosure policy] for disclosing
  vulnerabilities that affected older versions of Bitcoin Core.  For
  low-severity vulnerabilities, the details will be disclosed about two
  weeks after the first release of a version of Bitcoin Core that
  eliminates (or satisfactorily mitigates) the vulnerability.  For most
  other vulnerabilities, the details will be disclosed after the last
  version of Bitcoin Core affected by the vulnerability reaches
  end-of-life (which is about a year and a half after it was released).
  For rare critical vulnerabilities, members of the Bitcoin Core
  security team will privately discuss the most appropriate disclosure
  timeline to use.

  After this policy has a chance to be further discussed, it is the
  intention of the project to begin disclosing vulnerabilities affecting
  Bitcoin Core 24.x and below.  It is **strongly recommended** that all

>   users and administrators upgrade to Bitcoin Core 25.0 or above within

Reviewer 6: Maybe better to recommend 25.2, as 25.0 is over a year old and 25.2 includes a [number of backported bug fixes](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/compare/v25.0...v25.2).

Author: Editing in #1716

[Lightning BLIPs][blips repo], [Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition
repo], and [BINANAs][binana repo]._

- [Core Lightning #7252][] changes the behavior of `lightningd` to ignore the
  `ignore_fee_limits` setting during a cooperative channel closure. This fixes
  an issue where a Core Lightning (CLN) channel opener node overpays fees when

>   the counterparty is a LDK node. In this scenario, when the LDK non-opener node

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the counterparty is an LDK node. In this scenario, when the LDK non-opener node
```

  (Alice) initiates a cooperative channel closure and begins fee negotiation,
  the CLN opener node (Bob) responds that the fee can be anything between
  `min_sats` and `max_channel_size` due to the `ignore_fee_limits` setting. Bob
  picks the upper bound (contrary to the BOLTs specification), and Alice
  accepts, resulting in Alice broadcasting a transaction with considerably
  overpaid fees.

> - [LDK #2931][] enhances the logging during path finding to include additional

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [LDK #2931][] enhances the logging during pathfinding to include additional
```
or maybe "path-finding"?

Reviewer 5: good catch. 'pathfinding' is the right one. https://github.com/bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io/blob/master/STYLE.md

  Code) Extract-and-Expand Key Derivation Function) to the `bitcoin_hashes`
  component to implement BIP324 in Rust Bitcoin. HKDK is used to derive
  cryptographic keys from a source of keying material in a secure and
  standardized way. [BIP324][topic v2 p2p transport] (also known as v2 P2P
  transport) is a proposal to allow Bitcoin nodes to communicate with each other
  over encrypted connections (enabled by default in Bitcoin Core). 

- [BIPs #1541][] adds BIP431 to propose [Topologically Restricted Until
  Confirmation (TRUC)][topic v3 transaction relay] (v3 transactions) which are a
  subset of standard transactions with additional rules designed to allow
  transaction replacement while minimizing the cost of overcoming
  [transaction-pinning][topic transaction pinning] attacks. See Newsletters
  [#289][news289 v3], [#296][news296 v3] and [#301][news301 v3] for more on v3
  transactions.

- [BIPs #1556][] adds BIP 337 to propose Compressed Transactions, a
  serialization protocol to compress bitcoin transactions to reduce their size
  by up to 50%. They are practical for low-bandwidth transmission such as by

>   satellite, HAM radio, or through steganography. Two RPC commands are proposed:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  satellite, HAM radio, or steganography. Two RPC commands are proposed:
```

Author: Leaving as-is.  I think "through" makes sense here since it is not a complete transmission method itself.

Reviewer 3: That's subtle! But makes sense 👍
